you
hello everyone
we've talked a little bit about choosing
equipment and taking care of equipment
after all you cannot build a strong
foundation with bad materials but now
that we've got the materials taken care
of let's talk a little bit about
shooting the fundamentals of shooting
the first thing you'd want to talk about
would be the stance and by the way we're
fairly fortunate and pull we are our
fundamentals are not near as complex as
a lot of sporting activities for the
most part all we have to do is stand
still and move our right arm or left arm
off or if we're left-handed first for a
stance you don't want to have a casual
stance like some people want to shoot
real casual well they're not there you
might shoot casually but they're never
gonna shoot very well you want to take
an athletic position what's called an
athletic position that means you're
balanced heel-and-toe you can turn
fairly down the line or you can turn
fairly square to the line that's kind of
a personal thing but you want to be in a
strong position almost like you feel
like if somebody came up and kind of
pushed you a little bit you wouldn't
fall over once you've got a nice stance
a solid stance the next thing you want
to focus on is your shooting arm your
forearm should be straight down should
be straight down when the tip is about a
quarter inch from the cue ball you don't
want your arm forward like this you
can't follow through you don't want your
arm back like this because your first
motion is gonna make it go down as it
goes down you want it to be right in the
middle of its curvature right where at
its lowest point now your upper arm
might be fairly parallel to the ground
but it's not important because some
people get real low which forces your
elbow up but your your arm is still
straight down so those are the two most
basic fundamentals of the stance and the
set up is your stance and how your right
arm or your left arm if you're
left-handed its situated so you can make
a good stroke there are
many many professional players use a
variety grips we don't have to talk
about the grip you can hold it loosely
in your fingers you can have it up in
your palms that's not that important I
would say generally speaking though you
want your body to be fairly solid
somewhat tense but of course your
shooting arm needs to be relaxed enough
to make a nice free stroke